# 5/5/16  skype meeting notes

- Bar graphs based on a 0/1 (binary) gender assoignment script
  - Recapitulates previous literature
    - More women in 1st author position than last
    - Underrepresented at both ends
    - More likely to be 2nd to last than last
    - Lower in comp bio than all of bio
  - Around 50% of names are of unknown gender

- Should we compare comp-bio to non-comp-bio or com-bio to all? A study of gender bias within a given profession would compare that profession to the general population, not to the general population minus that profession

- 200,000 hits for biology, 70,000 for comp bio. Is our comp bio identification rate too high? What could be done about it?
  - Restrict mesh terms
  - Select random sample of papers labelled "comp bio" and let panel of computational biologists decide how many of them really are. This would give an estimate of the sale of the problem, but no way of fixing it.
  - Compare papers in PLoS Biology with papers in PLoS Comp Bio. Will the lower impact factor of PLoS Comp Bio mess with us? No, because the effect would go the opposite way. (Based on previous literature, we would expect women to be underrepresented in the higher-impact journal. If they are instead underrepresented in the lower-impact comp bio journal, then that points to a comp bio problem)

- Statistics! What to do?
  - With the other name assignment software, each name carries a probability of being male, and a number of observations this probability was based on. Exclude probabilities close to 50%? Exclude names based on few measurements? Try a few things and see if they all converge? 
  - How to depict the uncertainty inherent in the data collection (m/f assignment). One possibility is to simulate gender assignments (for each individual, assign randomly based on male probability), do this 1000 times for the entire data set to get an estimate of variance. 
  - Look for alternative statistical methods we could use (BMS stats mailing list, other internet forums)

- Store access token in separate file, git ignore

- Next meeting: 19 May, same time


